# BankingApplication
PROJECT SUMMARY:                                                                                                                 This banking application was created to provide a bank with a secure, reliable system that can help the user calculate their compound interest for investments over time. The application provides the user the ability to visualize their investments over time with or without regular monthly contributions. The user can input their initial investment amount, monthly deposit, annual interest rate, and planned investment duration in months. The program will then display two reports to all the user to visually see their year-end balances and earned interest. One report will show the outcome without monthly deposits and one will depict the outcome with monthly deposits. 

PROGRAM STRENGTHS:                                                                                                               The banking application utilizes object-oriented programming through the use of three separate classes Bankingapp, DisplayScreen, and StaticReport. It provides a clean visual experience for the user. The program also incorporated error-handling and provides an accurate calculator for the user.

NEEDED ENHANCEMENTS:                                                                                                             The program while functionable and easy to use could use stronger and more secure input validation. If I could add the ability for the user to add non-numeric and negative entries it would provide a more robust feel to the program. It also needs more visualization effects such as icons and emblems, while also incorporating bar graphs to provide the user with more of a visual representation of their potential interest growth.

CHALLENGING PARTS:
Implementing the calculation logic was one of the most challenging parts of this project, along with implementing the correct color syntax to provide the user with lime green lettering instead of the stock white. I also found the two display functions to be difficult to code in order to make them perfectly line up without numbers being completely out of line. I had to go back and forth with the correct syntax for the functions to get the display correct. 

TRANSFERRABLE SKILLS:                                                                                                         The two most important skills I will be able to take with me from this project are centered around using object-oriented principles such as separating UI from the overall program logic. I will also take with me the ability to manipulate visuals, I almost had the icons for the app, but I ran out of time. 

Maintainability, readability, and adaptability:                                                                              For this program, using consistent formatting and comprehensive comments for each line of code makes this program maintainable and readable. I think each class and method are clearly defined and offer a high amount of adaptability.   
